Basically, I teach two courses on history of books, one for undergraduates as a seminar and one for graduate students as a seminar.
The one for undergraduates starts with St.
Augustine and goes down to the World Wide Web, and the one for graduate students concentrates much more on the 15th and 16th and early 17th centuries.
Is it history of a book or history of reading?
Well, I call it history of books, their producers, and their consumers, and trying to look at, in different ways in the two courses, at reading, but also at writing, because I think that for most of Western history, the distinction between reading and writing was much less clear than it is now.
In many, many contexts, you read with a pen in hand, you took notes,
you worked up the notes into something which you then circulated under your own name, what's reading and what's writing is not so clear.
In a world of classical al-usuf poetry, every writing was a reading.
So I try to teach them to think that way, to think of it not in the sort of romantic era idea of the writer standing on the cliffside with the muse infusing an inspiration that has nothing to do with tradition or earlier precedent, but in terms of
production, consumption, which doesn't mean I don't think they should read text.
I think they absolutely should.
I just find this a way to get them excited about reading text.
How would you describe what you teach, as opposed to what Mr. Garten is involved in his given book?
Well, there's a lot of similarities.
He's one of the great pioneers in that field.
But there are also differences.
One is that I'm interested in, I think, in a longer chronological range than he is, and I've actually worked fairly directly on material.
You know that you're a truffle hunter.
Yeah, I'm definitely a truffle hunter, but I hunt truffles in many different places.
I go from the 15th to the 19th century, and even, I'm hoping, in my own research, now the 20th, as a historian of books and reading.
Bob does this, too, with his new work on East Germany and on India.
I do think that he has an enormous single body of material from 18th century France and Switzerland, which is his basic corpus.
And I tend to be more of a case study person and to look for individuals or for objects where I can gather material and make a case study and to be willing to go across widely different periods and places in search of these.
They're both perfectly legitimate.
And in teaching, he actually, after I designed my undergraduate course, I discovered that he had taught a similar course 10 or 12 years ago, which I hadn't known about.
Do you have a syllabus for the course?
I do, but if you'll email me, my secretary left, and she always locks the file cabinet.
No, no, not at all.
There's books in there.
I'm sure they're writing.
Well, we have both in the undergraduate.
In the graduate course, we work in the special collections department, and the students must present every week original materials from the Princeton collections, or in some cases, photocopies of things we don't have.
From the Princeton collections is very important.
Yeah, but I think it's much better if they're using first-hand documents.
And so it was very hard this year, because I had almost 20 students taking and auditing this graduate course.
and just finding enough materials for them each to do two presentations is not easy.
You don't mind if it's a pre-ranging discussion?
Not at least.
There are a thousand different things that you can invest yourself into.
I'm doing a chapter on books still matter.
Numbers, apparently, are still important.
Harvard quite scrupulously
maintains its leadership.
I mean, 14 million books, how many did they add last year?
We've been taking my daughter around, she's working here today.
One of the first things on every one of these tours, they always tell us how many volumes there are in the library.
Princeton likes to boast, because everyone boasts a dog where they're first.
We boast particularly about the fact that we circulate more books per capita.
Per capita.
I took notes while I was in Firestone.
I hadn't seen this statistic.
86 books.
per fiscal year of faculty student.
I said, that's very interesting.
I hadn't seen that.
And according to Karen Trainor, our librarian, our number is the highest.
I've never seen it before.
Well, every library can now capture this.
I don't know where the librarians do, but it's easy to capture the data.
See, it really wouldn't work with me at Widener, for instance, because my stack passes
to take and read there.
And if they let you take things out and Xerox them without checking them out.
That's never going to be.
Right.
And I'll go in and do four or five.
And I think that's one reason why Harvard comes out lower, is that Widener allows that.
And it's a very unusual system there.
And it's very expensive.
It's twice as much.
You get circulation, for sure.
These are things I'm going to copy anyway.
I may as well just do it while I'm in.
Absolutely.
Yeah, and you get a nice Widener copy card.
But it's quite striking to me that, you know,
I think the thing that makes for high circulation is graduate programs, of course, and senior theses.
I can do a senior thesis group at Bates and Bates College, and one of the very few undergraduate schools in the country.
That's right.
I think that still requires a senior thesis.
students are expected to do work from Princeton collections.
So this is probably a course that it wouldn't be taught at very many times.
Oh, you could teach it at any one of the top 12 or 15 American university libraries.
And if you were in LA, you could teach it at the Huntington, or you could teach a later version at the Clark, not the one that I did.
But you could teach it at Berkeley, Stanford, Michigan, Chicago, Columbia.
If I were to tell you there's a brand new, and of course we're not talking about Princeton and the small colleges, which we've been looking at as well.
There's a new college in Monterey Bay, set up by the California state.
I'll be writing about it.
They are now five years old.
And if I were to ask you to give me a wild guess at how many books they have in my life, what would you say?
This is a state university.
No idea.
Could you believe 34,000 writers?
Huh.
Would you find that shocking?
I would find that shocking.
Except for only five years, you know, you have to start somewhere.
But they acquired 25,000 in the first year, so they only added 9,000.
2,000 a year.
But what they want, this is the same institution that said,
They didn't want a library at all.
They didn't even plan for it.
Oh, right.
And then there's a school down in Florida, which has 200,000 libraries.
I guess it's up here.
They went under.
Right.
They went and bought, at a fire sale, $450,000 worth of books.
But it is the intention of the president there to have a library, he says, which is no bigger than a telephone book.
I guess what I'm driving at is you do have institutions today, accredited institutions,
that are planning to teach without books.
I find this extremely sinister.
I love this stuff.
It's a great addition to what we do, and I'll tell you a couple of ways.
First way, when I have a senior, and we are a mostly undergraduate place, even though we have a great, great graduate program in history and many other humanistic fields.
When I have a senior who is doing, say, a 200-page senior thesis on 16th century texts on witches and Jews,
She is going to need more than is here, even though we have a lot of microphone holdings to add to what we do.
So we sit and we go visit Harvard.
And it's actually faster to get into Hollis than it is to Princeton from my office.
And so each of my students, we go to Yale, we go to Columbia, we go to New York Public.
We plan their trips in this office.
And they all have friends at the other colleges with boards they can sleep on.
And it's fantastic.
Twenty years ago, when I supervised senior theses, trying to do this kind of planning was well-nigh impossible.
Even out of the National Union catalog, it was so imperfect, and you couldn't get fully reliable information.
And this has just transformed that kind of teaching.
One of my seniors this year went to Europe to do archival work for a month for her thesis.
And because she wasn't working in state archives, but mostly in college and university archives, they all had web pages.
in England and France alike, and she arrived at my door two weeks before leaving with email permissions from every archivist and librarian, appointments for using these places, all of a sudden before she'd ever set foot out of the country.
That's right.
I'm happy to be experiencing the same thing and setting up my trips and going abroad.
And you no longer have to just show up and knock and hope there's no more.
This meeting was set up entirely electronically.
Absolutely.
A letter.
And here it is.
Perfect.
We're here at the right time.
And I don't see any loss here.
Okay, I have four seniors this year.
And each one of them is writing a thesis, 100 to 200 pages long.
Big project for 2021-year-old.
Now, this is the point where people begin to worry me.
They talk about how you can just supervise that electronically.
And I insist, when I have a senior, that senior's in here once a week, for only 20 minutes, but once a week, to show his or her face and say, hi, this is what I've been doing.
Now, I will do, I answer every email, and I probably, in the height of it, I'm probably getting five or six a week from each of them, with specific queries or with problems or whatnot.
But I think it has to be in elite education, and in any education, ideally.
But for what we're charging,
Email is something you add on to enrich and make better the contact you have face-to-face.
You start replacing face-to-face contact with email contact.
And as for me, you could nail the door shut in my office and I'll hand it out like I'd never want to do that.
And of course, serendipity, again, last week, last Friday, I went in to read a book that I couldn't get on interlibrary loan anywhere else in New England.
It's The History of the Durham Cathedral Library, 1911.
Terrific book.
I've been there.
This is part of my opening.
And I've got to read this book.
Well, Harvard has it, thank goodness.
I go in.
But the far more interesting book was the one that was three volumes to the right that I'd never heard of.
Ernest A. Savage and the history of the reading in the Middle Ages.
And my students love, and don't just like, they love their books.
Every student I work with closely.
That matters.
That every student that I have real relations with is a book lover. As intensely as any students I've known in my 25 years and been in the business, they love books, they read books, we swap fiction recommendations, they go to bookstores, they find bizarre and wonderful things, and bring them in to show me. You know they
They're book lovers, and the ones who are most skilled in this are often the ones who are most lovers of traditional books and smelly secondhand bookstores.
I've heard of good secondhand bookstores here in Princeton.
Well, there's a variety of syncretic ones called Witherspoon in a basement down at the far end of Axel Street, which is always worth visiting.
You never know where the plan is.
And then McCauver, the little one across from it, is expanding.
They just had a superb art history collection, which I bought many things from.
So again, you're never in an academic town.
You never know who there's death, who there's hope.
But no, my students here, they are real lovers of books.
And it's actually, especially since I first taught this undergraduate course, I hear from them about it more than I have.
Did you get into this?
Is this a sideline to what you do?
It's a sideline.
I've always been interested in history of reading and annotated books.
I mean, I've talked about it in my
Gallagher books from the 80s and early 90s.
It was really my friend Lisa Jardine, a wonderful book.
She's a very old friend.
We knew each other as students.
She came here in
the 80s as a fellow in my department for a semester, and we worked together on a project on Gabriel Harvey, a friend of Edmund Spencer, who left a lot of books with very rich annotations, some of which are here.
And we did an enormous article together, which was published in 1990, and has had a very big influence.
It's called Read for Action, How Gabriel Harvey Read His Libby, and it's in the general past and present from 1990.
actually it's an article or a book it's an article but quite a substantial past and present is the journal for 1990 and and that's had a big impact that article it's become something of a classic because it was one of the first studies of an individual reader um that really tried to show how reading could be looked at in great detail on the basis of what evidence we have which you continued with the
the talk that you gave last year.
Yeah.
Wonderful.
Thank you.
And with other things.
And so what I'm hoping to do eventually is, A, to continue the teaching, which I really enjoy, and I find for ways we might want to talk later on about this.
One of the things I've noticed going around the world is that the history of books has become a hot teaching subject everywhere in the last 10 years.
I spent June in Israel, and in every Israeli university there's now a history of books, of course.
Do you have some names to recommend?
Yeah, Gadi Al Ghazi, he'll be in Berlin at Tel Aviv, and there's a couple of people at Haifa.
But it's all of a sudden, it's an email.
Gadi Al Ghazi, he's got a wonderful web page at the University of Tel Aviv.
And the web page, you guys can check it out.
I can always ask him in an email, but I'll give it to you and I'll check it.
I'll give it to you right now.
It's maybe even better than Jim O'Donnell's.
I just did an interview with Jim O'Donnell.
Did you read this in the book?
I'm reviewing it.
Here it is.
HTTP, because this will give you an email.
HTTP colon, backslash, backslash, Spinoza, period, TAU, period, AC,
period, IL, backslash, tilde, that little sort of horizontal thingy, Algazi, A-L-G-A-Z-I, and then another backslash.
And this is fantastically interesting.
So what you have, I think, is a clear sense around the world that this is not just a scholarly approach that pays off,
It's also a teaching approach that seems to work.
Is the approach a factual role?
I hope it's more than just an artifactual interest in books.
Oh, I think it's much more.
It seems to me that it's partly the way we are now.
What do cultural journalists cover?
They cover cultural journalism.
How a story gets done.
How the story went becomes the story.
The Stephen Glass story rapidly turned into the story of how Stephen Glass was covered.
by other journals.
We're interested, I don't know why, it's the spirit of the age, but we're interested in how things are packaged, how they are diffused, how they are sold.
And when you start asking those questions, students become excited, and they begin to read in a new way.
Doesn't mean that they don't read the text with love.
They just read it with a different kind of spectacle.
I tell you, I did a LexisNexis search on you, and I always
How often are you writing for them?
Once or twice a year.
I write for the New York City and the New Republic.
I love writing for the New Republic.
They always give you the word count.
I know, they're incredible.
Leon always says, I want people writing about the modern world as if it was the Middle Ages.
That's a wonderful quote.
I left to write for him, a great editor.
In fact, I'm going to be reviewing Jim O'Donnell for them.
I had a very interesting conversation with him.
I think he is a great scholar.
I am a good scholar. He is a great. No no no false modesty. As a friend of mine used to say, false modesty is better than none. But no no Jim's Augustine is going to be on the shelves in a hundred years and it's still going to be getting worn out in its fourth finding because it is a work that no one studying Augustine in a hundred years is going to be able to be without. That is an extraordinary level of achievement. I don't I think agree with him a lot on
media and many issues in the history of reading.
But I think that he is an extraordinary scholar.
He is particularly interesting in that he's involved quite actively in computers at the university.
By the testimony of everybody I know of him does a superb job.
But he loves it.
Everything is on his webpage.
The students are required.
He wants them to come to him.
My conversation with him was totally set up.
And if he could have done it by email, I think he probably would have rather have done it that way.
Well, I think he has more confidence in the virtual that I do for teaching.
I love this stuff.
I use it all the time.
It's wonderful to keep in touch with my students when they're in Europe or when I'm in Europe.
I really like that.
But it is a supplement to real teaching, which takes place in a setting like this, and there's just no other way.
You start, and you say, hot.
The very first sentence, reading is hot.
What accounts for that, do you think?
Oh, I think I can.
Does the paradigm shift have anything to do with that?
Well, there is some kind of paradigm shift, isn't there?
It has to do with our belief that everything can be exposed, that there's always a mechanism underneath that accounts for things.
You know, that a book is canonical not because it's a great book, but because someone made it canonical.
We're suspicious these days.
And the history of reading, I think, is very much about asking what were the mechanisms that made this what it was.
So that, I think, has had a big impact.
Students, it is true, they love to read, but they have less technical equipment for reading than students did in my generation in college.
What do you mean like that?
I mean that we spent four years in high school reading poems and doing new critical analysis.
We memorized poetry, we recited poetry.
But we all said, why did the poet use this metaphor?
Are you grieving over a golden grove?
Are you leaving?
Analyzing that word by word for hours, day after day in class.
We were reading, as I recall, Hopkins, Eliot, Dunn in high school English classes, and very closely.
Not always well, of course.
but closely in art.
Students do not come to college with that kind of training in reading anymore.
Do you do video work with them?
Well, of course.
And as the great Otto Neudebauer, the great historian of ancient science used to say, no system of education could ruin everybody.
So there are always people who could read just because they can't do anything else, and they have to read.
And there are always people who fall in love with good writing, and students, a few, who are just
Superb, wonderful writers.
Wonderful, wonderful writers.
Sightseeing.
Absolutely.
One of the great things about teaching in a place like this is that your best students are so much abler than you are.
Oh, come on.
No, no, no.
It's true.
It's certainly that you work.
The kind of stuff they do here at 21 remotely not.
are coming in with fewer.
Because they move fast.
There's no baggage to carry.
They learn very quickly.
They write wonderfully at the top.
And they do love reading and writing.
At the same time, they have fewer tools.
But at the same time, they find that an approach which says, well, who made this book?
What does it take to make a book?
It clearly doesn't just take somebody sitting in her room writing with a full pen.
That somehow works for them.
It gets them thinking.
It gets them working.
It's charged up.
It gets incredible research papers done in ways that, in my experience, more traditional approaches don't necessarily.
But when you say reading is hut, it's not just hut on the university campus.
It seems to be hut everywhere.
Everywhere.
I mean, we've been building, that is to say, both virtual and material palaces of reading in the last 10 years, like nothing that America has ever seen before.
And if you, what was the old joke, if you laid every Grinmore poet end to end, you know, if you laid every Barnes & Noble and Borders end to end,
You know, how many acres of sold wood annealing and cappuccino machines?
Well, what's the fence like?
It's been larger?
I don't know.
It sounds pretty funny.
Yeah, I've never known.
It's a, you know, it's funny.
Yeah, I know.
It's very, very incorrect, too.
But, you know, from the terminology, I think I quoted it accurately.
It must come from the thirties.
Yeah, I'm sure.
Also, the student is being a bit depressed today.
Yeah, we like Harvard, who are the only place to get even more of the people they have met than we do.
We really are getting a wonderful class.
Now, it is true that reading is not as well taught in America as science.
How do you teach reading?
Do you teach reading?
Yeah, you get kids in a room and you read with them and you ask them what they're finding and you try to keep an open mind.
You try to give them tools for analyzing syntax and paragraph structure and plot.
You can't teach someone to be a great reader.
You can teach skills.
I was Paul lost skills when I was young and taught more in Latin and Greek class.
I don't feel that people have had these tasks going to them in the same way.
You mentioned it.
How do you pronounce the French scholar?
His name was S.A.
Boudet.
I've never heard of him before.
In France, he's a celebrity.
What you describe here is a man of some tremendous stature and substance.
Absolutely.
I'm really impressed that books, and again, you talk about paradigm shifts.
He has books and manuscripts.
He has printed books.
You call them hybrids.
I don't know what you call them, hybrids.
Yeah, because he takes the printed books and makes manuscripts out of them.
I love that.
I love this period when people are really cutting across the borders in all sorts of interesting ways.
Again, I find this is something that students really find quite fascinating.
What I did with my undergraduates, when I taught this history of books course, I was undergraduate.
The work that they did, I don't actually know how it happened.
One of them, a sophomore, took Mrs. Thrail's copy of the Tablet, which is in Catterstown, transcribed all of her manuscript notes, which were mostly notes about remarks on the city of London and her youth.
And compared the way she used the book to reminisce about her youth with the way the authors in the Tattler talked about the city of London, not many sophomores around the country are doing things like that.
And again, that only could be done here.
Yeah, again, or at Harvard, but nowhere else.
And one who did the most extraordinary.
We have in the rare book documents no one's ever going to be able to use in publication, at least for many years, the archive of Ian Hamilton's biography of Salinger, with the letters of the suppressed version and with his correspondence.
I read your books, and I did not get a set of those.
They were around for a while.
I'm usually pretty persuasive in publishing houses.
We have proofs, we've got his diary, we have all the correspondence he carried on.
I had a brilliant student who has been living in Germany this year, who had a particular strong sense that literary biography has practiced in America
very problematic genre, one that he felt is basically of interest more than anything else.
Not as everyone does it, but as most people do it.
The big fat book about the poet, which is mostly about property, prices, and sex lives.
And he said, well, here's Hamilton's more literary than most of the people who write these.
I'm going to reconstruct how he wrote it and see what a literary biography is.
This is Hamilton's stuff that came in?
Yeah.
No, no, no.
No, but we do have some salariana which can't be used.
But the Hamilton stuff was just fascinating.
The devastating paper was very sharply critical of Hamilton.
And just done with a rich body of primary sources to draw on it.
It occurs to me that now, you mentioned earlier that Princeton is largely an undergraduate institution.
You have extraordinary special collections here.
Are these special collections there then, do you think?
For the most part, they're the undergraduate students.
Do they use them?
Do you send them there to use them?
Absolutely.
I try to get undergraduates to use them as much as possible, and our graduate students also use them.
Our graduate program, I should say, in history, for example, we're one of the smallest graduate programs.
We have about 16 or 18 people each year entering.
But we're an extremely good program.
We're normally rated at the very top.
And we are, if anything, even more selective for graduates than for undergraduates.
And even more of them come.
We accept 20 and 18 come.
And they're very well-funded.
They're very carefully chosen.
And what we do with them in rare books and manuscripts is get them used to working with the material before they go abroad to do the massive work on their European dissertation.
They're preparing historians who will be writers, who will be teachers, who will be... Yeah, who will mostly be professors of history, though a few of them will go on and do other things.
Quite common, of course.
Historians put a lot of store by writing well, not just intelligently, but without jargon, with some kind of passion and vividness.
And many of the students who end up doing very serious undergraduate history and going on to graduate school
also consider trying to be writers.
It's a very, very common correlation.
So at this point, I know this year, one of my seniors is going off to work in a magazine next year.
A junior I know is doing a summer magazine internship.
I've known a number of students who have gone to the best of all these jobs, which is the literary assistant of the New Republic, which is just a great thing.
They get to edit me.
It's very funny.
To go back to that essay, you said you read for a couple of reasons.
I really liked the second one in that you read to be a writer.
Would you say in general that
You can pretty much, I don't know, keep doing this properly, but he is a writer, a product that he's reading, I wonder.
Absolutely.
And you cannot be a great writer in any of the world if you're not a great reader.
I had an interview with Roberto Echol for this book.
Milan, you can see he lives, he's 30,000 books in there, and he's wonderful.
And he just thought the question was, you know, basic.
I mean, don't even, why bother ask?
And he said, read Sartre's book, which I have, called The Wards.
Sartre's writing about what shaped him as a reader to the age of ten, which is really very interesting.
Were you shaped as a reader, would you say, as an adolescent?
Before I was an adolescent, I became a historian reading two books, Virginia Woolf,
and T.H.
White's Once and Future King, both of which made me so fascinated with the possibilities of thinking historically and projecting yourself into the distant past.
I never much wanted to do anything wrong.
Fiction, though.
Yeah.
Fiction, but deeply historically informed fiction.
But it's interesting that it was fiction.
Oh, yeah.
Actually, one of my students, again, passed on to me a wonderful short piece by Virginia Woolf, which I've never known, which begins with a fictional first-person account of a historian talking about a woman's diary from the 15th century.
Yeah, and then it's a diary.
Is it published?
Yes, it's in her quite a short fiction.
It's just wonderful.
I've never known it before.
I was really ashamed.
But absolutely, I think fiction's power to call out the past is absolutely the part of it.
How old were you with this epiphanous moment?
Probably 10, 11.
Really?
Yeah.
Were you always reading?
And are you still always reading?
No.
Is there anything that you... I asked this question of Harold Blum, and he was... I said, because apparently, if you think about this word, he reads everything.
And I said, is there a book on the book?
Is there a book?
that you would like to read that you haven't had time?
Sure.
He said, no.
He said he's read everything that interested.
I'm not trying to respond to that, but I have to believe he reads voraciously.
I read an enormous amount, but never as much about it as well.
Do you still read fiction, honest and pleasure?
Constantly, and let's say the last week, what have I read?
Well, I read Lawrence Westler's Calamities of Edile, the three non-fiction novellas.
Yeah, that's new, isn't it?
Yeah.
Is that our own radio?
We did that, and quite a lot.
Chicago?
Yeah, the commercial places weren't interested in it.
Too bad.
And his book, his last book, with my book, we come up the same year.
We're all finalists for that.
Oh, yeah, yeah.
They both did extortion them.
But just on the strength of that, and he also was a
I'm amazed that the commercial house didn't pick up on that.
Well, I'm not.
I mean, I think that most of the commercial houses are organic.
And we go, you know, I've seen those and everything, so how did you do on the last one?
But I, yeah, I would say I read that.
Is it good?
Yeah, it's wonderful.
It's a nice man.
Yeah, wonderful man.
It's a stunning piece of writing.
I just re-read Wallace Segner's Crossing to Safety, which is my favorite of mine.
And I'm about to start a book, which, again, which a student gave me, called Straight Man by Richard Russo, which is a college novel.
He went to Pobie, I think.
Yeah, that's right.
So that's like the last five days.
Just the last five days.
That's amazing.
Pardon me for jumping around.
This is great.
Are you a collector?
Do you collect books?
I collect 16th and 17th century books in my fields of interest now.
Stephen Jay Gould says, for instance, he needs to hold the actual book.
It's something.
describe what it is.
But he can't do it from a facsimile.
He has to... Oh, I don't like facsimiles.
You don't mind him?
No, I use a lot of facsimiles.
I'm happy with microfilm and all of them.
But I like to own the books when I can.
Maybe that's just an excuse to bump me at once.
Yeah, yeah.
I do like to own some of them, but I don't.
No, I've never felt that.
I'm always really grateful to have a facsimile.
I have to tell you, in November, I was in Venice, in Marciana, and handled that same text.
And that's a book that's about 1,000, I don't know the years have started, 1,000.
And that's the oldest extant text, I guess.
Is that about that?
Certainly the oldest extent, complete one, and then certainly the only one which has this information on how the Alexandrian scholars did it.
And then apparently there are what really makes it very interesting are the invasions and the annotations and the references to works which can't be... Which we don't have, which have to be reconstructed from those references.
But this is the kind of thing that you get from reading and reading and reading the annotations.
Your book on footnotes, of course, you seem to be interested in every aspect of the book.
Yeah, I really do.
I'm just a book person.
My next book, which is here, is on a Renaissance astrologer.
Again, he tries to ask about what an astrologer's books are for, what different kinds of books he wrote, and how people use them.
and also how his books reflect a kind of collaborative effort that his publisher had a big impact on him and so on.
What other kinds, do you think that a hundred years from now, Tony Grafton's in the year 2080 or 90 will be able to tell similar things about his youth, for instance?
I don't think they'll want to, but if they didn't want to... Well, as an example, from their reading, do you write copiously in margins?
Very little.
So this is something that really is of another time, isn't it?
Well, it depends on the book.
I just reread Middlemarch a few weeks ago, and I did find myself copying quotations from Middlemarch in the front of my copy.
I noticed George Steiner in his book really urges people to write them in a book, and it's not a sin to write it in your book.
No, no, it's an admirable habit, which I don't do enough, but I did find with George Eliot it was irresistible.
There were things which I just couldn't stop myself.
Are you familiar with Owen Gingrich's book?
I'm writing about this, this is a beautiful book.
He traveled the world.
He's been 20 years trying to find every first and second, first and second, because he had understood that this was the greatest book never read.
And, you know, but his study goes... On the contrary.
Some very interesting people with some very interesting comments, which are preserved.
Absolutely.
And that's really what you're...
It's one of the most interesting lines of investigation anyone's following in this film.
You should get a sense of the people I've interviewed at.
It really is covering just the most people I've tried.
I'm happy to talk to you.
Your books, by the way, and your writings speak most eloquently.
It seems like I'm not questioning one.
Yeah, of course.
I really do enjoy these quotes.
Do you know Father Boyle?
He's working on a project, the Aquinas project, which could take two or three hundred years.
Well, the Dominicans are patient.
Is something like that an interview with 200?
How do you justify 200?
Because of the level of the crash they put in.
It's the way you build a cathedral.
It's slow, it's beautiful, it can't be done quickly.
And what are they doing?
Well, I mean, a client has had a horrible handwriting.
Every word has to be deciphered.
My understanding is that at the end, they'll have created the total, absolutely reliable base for Aquinas studies, which doesn't exist.
And so, General, a priest up in Toronto, as a matter of fact, said, well, one of the reasons is that we're getting fewer and fewer people to connect them, you know, to join the brothers.
Oh, it's a real problem, yeah.
But then Father Boyle also indicated that he has a few people on the board, and he's really rigid in caution that some of the books that were published earlier, that they're saying now some of the scholarship might be flawed, and we have to do it all over again.
He's like, let's wait a bit on this.
He said, let's take a look at it.
Can you give me a comment on it?
Because I am writing about him.
Oh, well, he is a wonderful man.
I think he is one of the most
generous and open custodians of great books I've ever seen.
His heart, when he was Vatican librarian, was entirely with the readers and getting the readers to the material.
And then, of course, he is the one responsible for bringing Iggy in and opening this thing up.
Absolutely.
He's a great opener up of a hidden thing.
I gather there's going to be a big piece on him in The New Yorker in the near future.
Even though he's working on it?
Um... This evidence doesn't bother me, by the way.
Is there other sources to say?
Absolutely.
There's further evidence that these questions are suddenly very interesting.
Yeah, and this is often, you know, questions about why he's no longer the head of Wagner.
Well, you know, the courts are our favorites.
They talk because of the perceived politics.
Every librarian or prefect has been named a cardinal, and he's probably more deserving than the whole lot of them.
This is a genuine scholar.
Oh, yeah.
I went through there, and Peter was showing around, a very able assistant.
It was quite wonderful.
You are a person of the book.
Do you consider yourself a book person, a person of the book?
Absolutely.
Yeah, it's on your floor to try to tempt and seduce students to be book people.
Do you have any thoughts on deaccessioning of books, books that aren't read?
Yeah.
Are they moving books off campus?
Well, off campus and deaccessioning are two different things.
I worry about them both.
Deaccessioning, I think, is criminal, because you're foreclosing the future, and you don't know what's going to look interesting in five or ten or thirty years.
Hello?
I didn't leave you here.
That's possible.
My secretary probably pulled it in.
I think deaccessioning is terrifying.
The previous librarian did occasionally things like 18th, 19th century PCs, which had been filmed.
But I don't believe in that.
On the other hand, using things out, I think, is a more complicated case.
Well, the right story.
because we can't avoid it.
I mean, nobody has the room for everything anymore.
One has to move some stuff off, but the result is very strange.
What you get in Widener is a stat collection, which is a snapshot of the world of scholarship at the point where off-site storage started.
And then I'm standing to check, a new passenger, by the way, and we go around and we're picking books together.
He's explaining to me that
the thinking that's going into my book as a candidate, and then I go out to the, I spent the day at this site.
Right.
But this is a very different matter from the Widener, which would give you the whole of scholarship brought together in one place.
It requires electronic browsing, and I don't know about you, but I don't have any faith that electronic browsing is really ever going to replace browsing data.
So you must have really been upset to see card catalogs.
I like card catalogs.
I also like computer catalogs, but they don't have remotely as much information.
Does Princeton still think it's fair?
Let me show you.
We're in the worst situation of any major library.
Not in every respect, but a catalog.
It's a double interface.
This is for the Library of Congress.
Books, everything after 1980.
They pulled out the name catalog.
This is the card catalog, down to 1980, which was scanned in as a database, and which you can search in a very cumbersome way.
When did you first publish a book?
Ninety-five.
Oh, wow, I'm sure up there.
Yeah, but not in that pre-1980.
Oh, let me see.
Oh, this is the car.
This is the car.
I'll show you it in a sec.
So you're finding friends in that.
And so, yes, we're on, so you gotta go on.
So they did scan an attack.
It's the card.
Wow.
So it's a virtual umbrella.
Well, that's pretty interesting.
But it's very cumbersome to use.
Yeah, I don't know.
This is not a very common thing.
No, it's an abortion.
It's just like beta technology, which is similar.
I've not seen it before I tell you a picture.
No, you won't see it again.
We're going to spend several million dollars to have a CLP.
Just buy it.
Here we go.
Let me just take a quick look here.
Do you have any thought on the record about the Colton Library over here?
I really don't.
Some of the material is quite fascinating.
I confess I have doubts about whether it's really going to pay off as a scholarly election for us.
But that's a strong off-the-record.
He's a great benefactor of the university.
I'd credit the university for dealing with it now.
Are you critical thinking?
Yes, I think that's right.
I mean, there are other universities, I believe, that... Jesus, hi.